1) Ifconfig : is  used to configure the kernel-resident network interfaces.
          It is used at boot time to set up interfaces as necessary.  After that,
          it is usually only needed when  debugging  or  when  system  tuning  is
          needed.
          
2) Netstat : prints  information about the Linux networking subsystem.  The
       type of information printed is controlled by  the  first  argument,  as
       follows:

   (none)
       By  default,  netstat  displays  a  list of open sockets.  If you don't
       specify any address families, then the active sockets of all configured
       address families will be printed.

   --route, -r
       Display the kernel routing tables. See the description in route(8)  for
       details.  netstat -r and route -e produce the same output.

   --groups, -g
       Display multicast group membership information for IPv4 and IPv6.
   
   --interfaces, -i
       Display a table of all network interfaces.

   --masquerade, -M
       Display a list of masqueraded connections.

   --statistics, -s
       Display summary statistics for each protocol.
       
    
3) ping : uses the ICMP protocol's mandatory ECHO_REQUEST datagram to elicit
       an ICMP ECHO_RESPONSE from a host or gateway. ECHO_REQUEST datagrams
       (“pings”) have an IP and ICMP header, followed by a struct timeval and
       then an arbitrary number of “pad” bytes used to fill out the packet.

       ping works with both IPv4 and IPv6. Using only one of them explicitly
       can be enforced by specifying -4 or -6.

       ping can also send IPv6 Node Information Queries (RFC4620).
       Intermediate hops may not be allowed, because IPv6 source routing was
       deprecated (RFC5095).


4) Arp : manipulates or displays the kernel's IPv4 network neighbour cache.
       It can add entries to the table, delete one or display the current con‐
       tent.

       ARP stands for Address Resolution Protocol, which is used to  find  the
       media  access  control  address of a network neighbour for a given IPv4
       Address.
       
       
5) telnet : The  telnet  command is used to communicate with another host using the
       TELNET protocol.  If telnet is invoked without the  host  argument,  it
       enters  command mode, indicated by its prompt (telnet>).  In this mode,
       it accepts and executes the commands listed below.  If  it  is  invoked
       with arguments, it performs an open command with those arguments.
       
6) tnftp : is the user interface to the Internet standard File Transfer Pro‐
       tocol.  The program allows a user to transfer files to and from  a  re‐
       mote network site.

       The  last five arguments will fetch a file using the FTP or HTTP proto‐
       cols, or by direct copying, into the current directory.  This is  ideal
       for  scripts.   Refer  to “AUTO-FETCHING FILES” below for more informa‐
       tion.

       Options may be specified at the command line, or to the command  inter‐
       preter.

       -4          Forces tnftp to only use IPv4 addresses.

       -6          Forces tnftp to only use IPv6 addresses.

       -A          Force  active  mode FTP.  By default, tnftp will try to use
                   passive mode FTP and fall back to active mode if passive is
                   not supported by the server.  This option causes  tnftp  to
                   always  use  an  active  connection.  It is only useful for
                   connecting to very old servers that do not  implement  pas‐
                   sive mode properly.

       -a          Causes  tnftp  to bypass normal login procedure, and use an
                   anonymous login instead.

       -d          Enables debugging.

       -e          Disables command line editing.  This is  useful  for  Emacs
                   ange-ftp mode.

       -f          Forces a cache reload for transfers that go through the FTP
                   or HTTP proxies.

       -g          Disables file name globbing.

       -i          Turns off interactive prompting during multiple file trans‐
                   fers.

       -N netrc    Use  netrc instead of ~/.netrc.  Refer to “THE .netrc FILE”
                   or more information.

       -n          Restrains tnftp from attempting “auto-login”  upon  initial
                   connection  for non auto-fetch transfers.  If auto-login is
                   enabled, tnftp will check the .netrc (see  below)  file  in
                   the  user's  home  directory for an entry describing an ac‐
                   count on the remote machine.  If  no  entry  exists,  tnftp
                   will  prompt  for the remote machine login name (default is
                   the user identity on the local machine), and, if necessary,
                   prompt for a password and an account with which  to  login.
                   To  override the auto-login for auto-fetch transfers, spec‐
                   ify the username (and optionally, password) as appropriate.

       -o output   When auto-fetching files,  save  the  contents  in  output.
                   output is parsed according to the “FILE NAMING CONVENTIONS”
                   below.   If  output  is  not ‘-’ or doesn't start with ‘|’,
                   then only the first file specified will be  retrieved  into
                   output; all other files will be retrieved into the basename
                   of their remote name.

       -P port     Sets the port number to port.


       -p          Enable  passive  mode  operation  for use behind connection
                   filtering firewalls.  This option has  been  deprecated  as
                   tnftp  now  tries  to  use passive mode by default, falling
                   back to active mode if the server does not support  passive
                   connections.

       -q quittime
                   Quit if the connection has stalled for quittime seconds.

       -R          Restart all non-proxied auto-fetches.

       -r wait     Retry the connection attempt if it failed, pausing for wait
                   seconds.

       -s srcaddr  Uses srcaddr as the local IP address for all connections.

       -t          Enables packet tracing.

       -T direction,maximum[,increment]
                   Set  the  maximum  transfer  rate  for direction to maximum
                   bytes/second, and if specified, the increment to  increment
                   bytes/second.  Refer to rate for more information.
        -u url file ...
                   Upload files on the command line to url where url is one of
                   the  ‘ftp://’ URL types as supported by auto-fetch (with an
                   optional target filename for single file uploads), and file
                   is one or more local files to be uploaded.

       -V          Disable verbose and progress, overriding the default of en‐
                   abled when output is to a terminal.

       -v          Enable verbose and progress.  This is the default if output
                   is to a terminal (and in the case of progress, tnftp is the
                   foreground process).  Forces tnftp to  show  all  responses
                   from  the remote server, as well as report on data transfer
                   statistics.

       -x xfersize
                   Set the size of the socket  send  and  receive  buffers  to
                   xfersize.  Refer to xferbuf for more information.

       -?          Display help to stdout, and exit.
       
       The  client host with which tnftp is to communicate may be specified on
       the command line.  If this is done, tnftp will immediately  attempt  to
       establish  a connection to an FTP server on that host; otherwise, tnftp
       will enter its command interpreter  and  await  instructions  from  the
       user.   When tnftp is awaiting commands from the user the prompt ‘ftp>’
       is provided to the user.  The  following  commands  are  recognized  by
       tnftp:

       ! [command [args]]
                   Invoke an interactive shell on the local machine.  If there
                   are  arguments,  the first is taken to be a command to exe‐
                   cute directly, with the rest of the arguments as its  argu‐
                   ments.

       $ macro-name [args]
                   Execute  the  macro  macro-name  that  was defined with the
                   macdef command.  Arguments are  passed  to  the  macro  un‐
                   globbed.

       account [passwd]
                   Supply  a supplemental password required by a remote system
                   for access to resources once a login has been  successfully
                   completed.   If  no  argument is included, the user will be
                   prompted for an account password  in  a  non-echoing  input
                   mode.

       append local-file [remote-file]
                   Append  a  local  file to a file on the remote machine.  If
                   remote-file is left unspecified, the  local  file  name  is
                   used  in  naming the remote file after being altered by any
                   ntrans or nmap setting.  File  transfer  uses  the  current
                   settings for type, format, mode, and structure.

       ascii       Set  the  file transfer type to network ASCII.  This is the
                   default type.

       bell        Arrange that a bell be sounded  after  each  file  transfer
                   command is completed.

       binary      Set  the  file transfer type to support binary image trans‐
                   fer.

       bye         Terminate the FTP session with the remote server  and  exit
                   tnftp.   An end of file will also terminate the session and
                   exit.

       case        Toggle remote computer file name case mapping  during  get,
                   mget  and mput commands.  When case is on (default is off),
                   remote computer file names with all letters in  upper  case
                   are  written in the local directory with the letters mapped
                   to lower case.

       cd remote-directory
                   Change the working  directory  on  the  remote  machine  to
                   remote-directory.

       cdup        Change  the  remote machine working directory to the parent
                   of the current remote machine working directory.

       chmod mode remote-file
                   Change the permission modes of the file remote-file on  the
                   remote system to mode.
        close       Terminate  the  FTP session with the remote server, and re‐
                   turn to the command interpreter.  Any  defined  macros  are
                   erased.

       cr          Toggle carriage return stripping during ascii type file re‐
                   trieval.  Records are denoted by a carriage return/linefeed
                   sequence  during  ascii  type file transfer.  When cr is on
                   (the default), carriage returns are stripped from this  se‐
                   quence  to conform with the Unix single linefeed record de‐
                   limiter.  Records on non-Unix remote  systems  may  contain
                   single  linefeeds;  when  an  ascii  type transfer is made,
                   these linefeeds may be distinguished from a  record  delim‐
                   iter only when cr is off.

       debug [debug-value]
                   Toggle debugging mode.  If an optional debug-value is spec‐
                   ified  it  is used to set the debugging level.  When debug‐
                   ging is on, tnftp prints each command sent  to  the  remote
                   machine, preceded by the string ‘-->’.
       delete remote-file
                   Delete the file remote-file on the remote machine.

       dir [remote-path [local-file]]
                   Print  a  listing of the contents of a directory on the re‐
                   mote machine.  The listing  includes  any  system-dependent
                   information  that  the server chooses to include; for exam‐
                   ple, most Unix systems will produce output from the command
                   ‘ls -l’.  If remote-path is left unspecified,  the  current
                   working directory is used.  If interactive prompting is on,
                   tnftp will prompt the user to verify that the last argument
                   is  indeed  the target local file for receiving dir output.
                   If no local file is specified, or if local-file is ‘-’, the
                   output is sent to the terminal.

       disconnect  A synonym for close.

       edit        Toggle command line editing, and context sensitive  command
                   and  file completion.  This is automatically enabled if in‐
                   put is from a terminal, and disabled otherwise.

       epsv, epsv4, epsv6
                  Toggle the use of the extended EPSV and  EPRT  commands  on
                   all IP, IPv4, and IPv6 connections respectively.  First try
                   EPSV/EPRT, and then PASV/PORT.  This is enabled by default.
                   If  an extended command fails then this option will be tem‐
                   porarily disabled for the duration of the  current  connec‐
                   tion, or until epsv, epsv4, or epsv6 is executed again.

       exit        A synonym for bye.

       features    Display what features the remote server supports (using the
                   FEAT command).

       fget localfile
                   Retrieve  the files listed in localfile, which has one line
                   per filename.

       form format
                   Set the file transfer form to  format.   The  default  (and
                   only supported) format is ‘non-print’.

       ftp host [port]
                   A synonym for open.

       gate [host [port]]
                   Toggle gate-ftp mode, which used to connect through the TIS
                   FWTK  and Gauntlet FTP proxies.  This will not be permitted
                   if the gate-ftp server hasn't been set  (either  explicitly
                   by  the  user, or from the FTPSERVER environment variable).
                   If host is given, then gate-ftp mode will be  enabled,  and
                   the  gate-ftp  server will be set to host.  If port is also
                   given, that will be used as the port to connect to  on  the
                   gate-ftp server.

       get remote-file [local-file]
                   Retrieve the remote-file and store it on the local machine.
                   If  the  local  file name is not specified, it is given the
                   same name it has on the remote machine, subject  to  alter‐
                   ation  by the current case, ntrans, and nmap settings.  The
                   current settings for type, form, mode,  and  structure  are
                   used while transferring the file.
       
       get remote-file [local-file]
                   Retrieve the remote-file and store it on the local machine.
                   If  the  local  file name is not specified, it is given the
                   same name it has on the remote machine, subject  to  alter‐
                   ation  by the current case, ntrans, and nmap settings.  The
                   current settings for type, form, mode,  and  structure  are
                   used while transferring the file.

       glob        Toggle  filename  expansion  for  mdelete,  mget, mput, and
                   mreget.  If globbing is turned off with glob, the file name
                   arguments are taken literally and not  expanded.   Globbing
                   for  mput  is  done  as  in csh(1).  For mdelete, mget, and
                   mreget, each remote file name is expanded separately on the
                   remote machine and the lists are not merged.  Expansion  of
                   a  directory  name is likely to be different from expansion
                   of the name of an ordinary file: the exact  result  depends
                   on  the foreign operating system and FTP server, and can be
                   previewed by doing ‘mls remote-files -’.  Note: mget,  mput
                   and  mreget are not meant to transfer entire directory sub‐
                   trees of files.  That can be done by transferring a  tar(1)
                   archive of the subtree (in binary mode).
       hash [size]
                   Toggle  hash-sign (‘#’) printing for each data block trans‐
                   ferred.  The size of a data block defaults to  1024  bytes.
                   This  can be changed by specifying size in bytes.  Enabling
                   hash disables progress.

       help [command]
                   Print an informative message about the meaning of  command.
                   If  no  argument is given, tnftp prints a list of the known
                   commands.

       idle [seconds]
                   Set the inactivity timer on the remote  server  to  seconds
                   seconds.   If  seconds  is  omitted, the current inactivity
                   timer is printed.

       image       A synonym for binary.

       lcd [directory]
                   Change the working directory on the local machine.   If  no
                   directory is specified, the user's home directory is used.

       less file   A synonym for page.


7) finger : The finger displays information about the system users.

       Options are:

       -s    Finger  displays  the user's login name, real name, terminal name
             and write status (as a ``*'' after the  terminal  name  if  write
             permission is denied), idle time, login time, office location and
             office phone number.

             Login  time is displayed as month, day, hours and minutes, unless
             more than six months ago, in which case  the  year  is  displayed
             rather than the hours and minutes.

             Unknown  devices  as well as nonexistent idle and login times are
             displayed as single asterisks.

       -l    Produces a multi-line format displaying all  of  the  information
             described for the -s option as well as the user's home directory,
             home  phone number, login shell, mail status, and the contents of
             the files “.plan”, “.project”, “.pgpkey” and “.forward” from  the
             

user's home directory.

             Phone numbers specified as eleven digits are printed as ``+N-NNN-
             NNN-NNNN''.  Numbers specified as ten or seven digits are printed
             as  the  appropriate subset of that string.  Numbers specified as
             five digits are printed as  ``xN-NNNN''.   Numbers  specified  as
             four digits are printed as ``xNNNN''.

             If  write  permission is denied to the device, the phrase ``(mes‐
             sages off)'' is appended to the line containing the device  name.
             One  entry per user is displayed with the -l option; if a user is
             logged on multiple times, terminal information is  repeated  once
             per login.

             Mail  status is shown as ``No Mail.'' if there is no mail at all,
             ``Mail last read DDD MMM ## HH:MM YYYY (TZ)'' if the  person  has
             looked  at  their  mailbox since new mail arriving, or ``New mail
             received ...'', ``  Unread since ...'' if they have new mail.

       -p    Prevents the -l option of finger from displaying the contents  of
             the “.plan”, “.project” and “.pgpkey” files.


8) traceroute : Print the route packets trace to network host.


9) who is : Print information about users who are currently logged in.

       -a, --all
              same as -b -d --login -p -r -t -T -u

       -b, --boot
              time of last system boot

       -d, --dead
              print dead processes

       -H, --heading
              print line of column headings

       -l, --login
              print system login processes

       --lookup
              attempt to canonicalize hostnames via DNS
        -m     only hostname and user associated with stdin

       -p, --process
              print active processes spawned by init

       -q, --count
              all login names and number of users logged on

       -r, --runlevel
              print current runlevel

       -s, --short
              print only name, line, and time (default)

       -t, --time
              print last system clock change

       -T, -w, --mesg
              add user's message status as +, - or ?    
              
-T, -w, --mesg
              add user's message status as +, - or ?

       -u, --users
              list users logged in

       --message
              same as -T

       --writable
              same as -T

       --help display this help and exit

       --version
              output version information and exit

       If  FILE is not specified, use /var/run/utmp.  /var/log/wtmp as FILE is
       common.  If ARG1 ARG2 given, -m presumed: 'am i'  or  'mom  likes'  are
       usual


